IrwRonuonou

· And miste condensed to cloud obscure the sky:
And clouds dissolvod the thirsty ground supply.
The rising trees the lofty mountsins grece,

'rho loity mountains leod the savege rsce,

Yet few, and strengers in the unpeopled place.
From 'hence the birth ol man the song pnrsued,
And how the world was lost und how renewed'*

ln the sixth book he deels, aiter a third
eulogium of Epicurus with various other phe·
nomena hitherto unnoticed‚ alleging, ss he hes
done before, several possible causes which may
account ior them, though admitting thet he is
entirely in doubt which may be the true expls-
netion. Then he proceeds to deal with the theory
and history of discsse, end concludes with s long
and detulledleccount of the plagueat Athens, in
which he closely iollows the account ol Thucy-
dides. The work is evidently unfinished, and was
interrupted by his death

Such is the poem oi Lucretius. Much of his
soience no doubt is false, and even palpebly
absurd, as when he states the sun is no lerger
thenit seems to us to be; but efter all he is in

very serly days a keen inquiror, a genuine seeker ἡ

nitertruth His errore do not detrsct from his
merite. They were such es in his day no one
could avoid3 his genius is his own. Amid the
vices end corruptions oi his dey, he endeavoured
to turn men’s thoughts to higher und sterner
purposes: to endeavour to understand the nature
oi the world around them, und the place they

ought to illl in it. It was a novel path, and he
mede great misulas, but yet the germs oi much

⁴ virgil, Erlomus, vl. al
xxvi

4

 

